# MscProject

Mycobacterium tuberculosis is a pathogenic bacterium which is one of the most serious challenges to modern medicine. It evades antibiotics that target replication mechanisms of bacteria through its unusual lifestyle: an ability to become latent and survive inside the host’s immune system’s cells. Previous investigation was performed by Serafini et al. (2019) examining the response of tuberculosis introduced to novel growth media containing differing carbon compounds as substrates for respiration. This investigation revealed the glyoxylate shunt and the reverse methylcitrate auxiliary pathways as being highly upregulated when tuberculosis is transferred from a glucose medium to lactate or pyruvate media.  Using the R package Baerhunter, the RNA-seq data from the Serafini paper was transformed and analysed to predict non-coding RNA elements and their expression in this study. Putative non-coding RNA elements were then compared to literature genomic feature files, and differential expression analysis was performed on the sites of putative non-coding RNA to examine the tuberculosis regulatory response upon introduction to novel growth media. Untranslated regions were shown to be highly involved in the regulation of the proteomic response to changing environmental conditions, verifying the proteomic expression seen in Serafini. Small RNA elements may drive higher-order changes in expression within the genome of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, though more investigation is needed. 

The author thanks Jennifer Stiens for help in troubleshooting the dataset and for providing code and advice on auxiliary functions of Baerhunter.

MSc project code and all files less than 1 GB.
